# hello-world
An effective information security management system (“ISMS”) preserves the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information by applying documented risk management processes.  Integrating the ISMS with the organization's other processes and management structure is necessary so that information security will be considered in the design of processes, systems, and controls.  An effective ISMS will give confidence to interested parties that risks are adequately managed.

The ISMS should be designed to meet the objectives of the organization, so understanding the business context where the program will operate is critical for success.  The ISMS should also take into consideration the intentions and direction of the organization.

ISMS design is influenced by the context in which the ISMS will operate.  The internal context includes considerations such as corporate governance and organization structure down to individual roles and accountabilities.  The internal context also covers the organizations resource capacities in areas including capital, people, time, processes, systems, and technologies.  Involvement of internal stakeholders is essential for the development of an effective ISMS because these stakeholders are needed to facilitate the effective design, implementation, and continued improvement of the ISMS.  

Further, the form and extent of the organizations contractual relationships should also be considered throughout the design and implementation of the ISMS.  External factors also drive the design of the ISMS.  Applicable legal and regulatory requirements must influence the design of the ISMS.  A full analysis of relevant laws such as GDPR and HIPPA allows the organization to design the ISMS to facility the organization’s capacity to meet all applicable requirements.

Risk assessment processes should be developed to identify risks associated with loss of confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.  These processes must consider the consequences of potential risk and the likelihood of occurrence to identify the magnitude of risk.  Analyzed risks should be compared to risk criteria so that priorities can be established.  Having documented, repeatable assessment processes in place ensures that assessments produce consistent, valid, and comparable results.  Again, the legal and regulatory framework in which the organization operates must be closely considered as violating these requirements often results in significant liability and reputational harm for the organization.

